= Journal 2024-02-29 =

== Root Vegetable Stew ==
:recipe:cookery:vegetable:stew:

<<<<<<< Updated upstream
Transferred to [[/Soup|Soup and Stew]].

||||||| Stash base
Adapted from:

- [[https://www.asaucykitchen.com/roasted-root-vegetable-stew/|A Saucy Kitchen Roasted Root Vegetable Stew]]
- [[https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/ree-drummond/beef-stew-with-root-vegetables-recipe-1983394|Beef Stew with Root Vegetables]]
- [[https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchen/roasted-root-vegetable-irish-lamb-stew-recipe-2008979|Roasted Root Vegetable Irish Lamb Stew]]

*Roasted Vegetables*:

- 2 to 3 lb root vegetables (use a combination of potatoes, carrots, parsnips,
  beets, turnips, rutabagas, etc.) peeled and diced.
  Reserve the peelings for stock.
- 2 Tb olive oil
- ½ tsp salt
- ½ tsp ground black pepper
- ¼ tsp cayenne
- As needed, Mural of Flavor, Sunny Spain, etc
- 2 garlic bulbs, sliced in half

*Stew*:

- 3 Tb olive oil
- 1 Tb butter
- 2 pounds beef stew meat
- 4 shallots, diced
- 2 can or bottle beer
- 4 cups beef broth, more as needed
- 2 Tb Worcestershire sauce
- 3 Tb tomato paste
- 2 15 oz/400 g cans fire-roasted, crushed or chopped tomatoes
- 2 tsp dried oregano
- 1 tsp red chili flakes
- 2 Tb grated parmesan
- 1 Tb maple syrup
- ½ tsp paprika
- 1 tsp kosher salt
- Freshly ground black pepper
- 2 Tb all-purpose flour, optional
- Minced fresh cilantro, for garnish

*Directions*:

1. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. Cover baking sheet with parchment paper.
3. Drizzle olive oil on cut side of garlic and sprinkle with salt.
4. Place cut side down on the baking sheet.
5. Add vegetables to a large bowl.
6. Drizzle olive oil and sprinkle the seasonings over the top.
7. Mix everything together until the veggies are well coated.
8. Spread vegetables on top of baking racks.
9. Place in the middle of the oven and roast for 30-35 minutes until the edges
   are crispy and vegetables are fork tender.
10. Set aside to cool.
11. Squeeze garlic from bulb onto vegetables.
12. Heat the oil and butter in a pan, over medium heat, and brown the beef.
13. Remove the beef from the pan.
14. Sauté onions until softened, about 5-7 minutes.
15. Add tomato paste, paprika, and red chili flakes to the onion mixture and cook another minute.
16. Add oregano, canned tomatoes, parmesan, beer, beef broth, and Worcestershire sauce.
17. Add maple syrup, salt and pepper to taste.
18. Bring the mixture to a simmer and let cook while the vegetables are roasting or for at least 15 minutes.
19. Add the roasted vegetables and garlic.
20. Return the beef to the pan.
21. Cover and simmer on a low heat until the meat is very tender, 1-½ to 2 hours.
22. If the liquid level gets too low, add more broth as needed.
23. Adjust seasoning as needed.
24. If the stew is too thin, remove a cup of cooking liquid from the
    pan and stir in the flour. Add the flour mixture back into the pan and
    stir. Simmer for 10 minutes until the stew is thick.
25. The meat should be very tender; if it's tough, let it continue to cook.
26. To finish, add the cilantro and stir through the stew.
=======
Transferred to [[/Soup|Soup and Stew]].
>>>>>>> Stashed changes
