= Journal 2025-05-31 =

== Zettelkasten VimWiki Addon (vim-zettel) ==
:Zettelkasten:vim-zettel:vimwiki:pandoc:

- [[/diary/2025-04-27#mystmd|MyST Markdown]] `compiler` and `errorformat`
- `ZettelInsertNote` drops the `yaml` metadata and the footer.
  `link-citations` are lost.
- `pandoc --citeproc` is not easily reversed.
- [[https://github.com/Chrismarsh/undo-pandoc-citeproc|Chrismarsh / undo-pandoc-citeproc]]
  provides a mechanism but requires creating
  `citations.txt` to record the prior state.
- Pandoc cannot add the References section without expanding the citations.
  Some conversion artifacts require cleanup.

{{{vim
let g:pandoc#compiler#arguments = "--to=markdown "
      \ .. "--from=markdown-header_attributes"
      \ ..    "+wikilinks_title_after_pipe-task_lists-citations "
      \ .. "--wrap=preserve --standalone --citeproc"

compiler! pandoc

make % -o %
" --to=markdown escapes @xyz, [@xyz] and tasks [X]

Format
" Prettier lower cases [X]

function pandoc#unescape_markdown() abort
  " Suppress :he E486.
  " Remove backslash from \[@abc\] and \@abc.
  %substitute/\\\[\(@.\{-1,}\)\\]/[\1]/ge
  %substitute/\\@/@/ge
  " Remove backslash and uppercase \[x\].
  %substitute/\\\[x\\]/[X]/e
  " Prettier lower cases [X]
  call CocAction('format')
  %substitute/\(\[x]\)/\U\1/Ie
endfunction
}}}

== MyST Markdown and Pandoc Markdown ==
:myst:mystmd:pandoc:markdown:

- [[/diary/2025-06-27#mystmd|Journal 2025-06-27 MyST Markdown with mdformat]]
- MyST Markdown and Pandoc formats differ on explicit header anchors.
  - [[https://mystmd.org/guide/cross-references#targeting-headers|MyST Cross References Targeting Headers]]
  - [[https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#extension-header_attributes|Pandoc Extension header_attributes]]
- Targets should be unique and not match file base names.

{{{bash
myst build --site

⚠️  20230929-1034.md:26 Linking "index-structure-or-hub-notes" to an implicit heading reference, best practice is to create an explicit reference.
⚠️  CRDA_notes.md:54 No target for internal reference "#20250528-1430" was found.
}}}

{{{vim
" Make #ref unique.
let b:uniq = rand()
%s/\(#\d\{8\}-\d\{4\}\)/\=submatch(1) .. "-" .. b:uniq/

" Convert ATX header attribute to MyST anchor.
%s/\(^#\{1,\}\s.\{1,\}\)\s{#\(.\{1,\}\)}/(\2)=\r\1/
}}}

{{{markdown
(index-structure-or-hub-notes)=

## Index, Structure or Hub Notes

MyST format.

## Index, Structure or Hub Notes {#index-structure-or-hub-notes}

Pandoc format.

## Internal Reference

[NEDO-10527](#20250528-1430-1051592359).

(#20250528-1430-1051592359)=

## NEDO-10527 {#20250528-1430-1051592359}

Target.
}}}
