= Dried Beans Recipes =
:beans:recipe:cookery:

== Contents ==
- [[#Dried Beans Recipes]]
  - [[#Instant Pot Dried Beans]]
  - [[#Ranch Style Beans]]
  - [[#Cowboy Beans]]
  - [[#Frijoles Refritos]]
  - [[#Baked Eggs and Beans on Toast]]
  - [[#Chili]]
  - [[#Red Beans and Rice]]

== Instant Pot Dried Beans ==

- Bay leaves
- ½ onion or dried shallots/onions
- Seal and cook on High Pressure per
  [[https://amindfullmom.com/instant-pot-beans/|Instant Pot Dried Beans]]:
  - Black Beans—30 Minutes
  - Chickpeas—40 Minutes
  - Kidney Beans—35 Minutes
  - Pinto Beans—25 Minutes
  - Navy Beans—30 Minutes
  - Great Northern Beans—35 Minutes
- Slow release pressure for 20 minutes before doing a quick release.
- ½ tsp apple cider vinegar
- Salt to taste

== Ranch Style Beans ==

Derived from
[[https://www.homesicktexan.com/ranch-style-beans-recipe/|Homesick Texan Ranch Style Beans Recipe]].
Adapted for a Instant Pot, using [[#Instant Pot Dried Beans]].

Additional sugar may be needed after refrigeration, depending on the acidity of
the tomatoes.

Ingredients:

- 16 oz dried beans
- 2 Bay leaves
- 6 ancho chiles, stems and seeds removed (¼ c chili powder)
- 6 cloves garlic, minced (1-½ tsp granulated)
- 4 cloves black garlic (optional)
- 1 onion, diced (2 tsp dried shallots)
- 1 15-ounce can diced tomatoes and their juices (1 (6 ounce) can tomato
  paste)
- 1 tsp packed brown sugar
- 1 tsp apple cider vinegar
- 1 tsp paprika
- 1 tsp ground cumin
- ½ tsp ground coriander
- 1 tsp cinnamon
- ½ tsp oregano
- 2 tsp salt
- 1 tsp black pepper
- 1 tsp black & red pepper (½ tsp cayenne pepper)
- 6 cups beef broth
- Cayenne pepper, optional, for heat, to taste
- Optional, for serving: hot sauce, grated cheese, sliced jalapeno, sour cream,
  sliced green onion, chopped fresh parsley or cilantro

Directions:

1. In a cast-iron skillet heated up to medium high, cook the anchos on each
   side for a couple of minutes (or until they start to bubble and pop), turn
   off the heat and fill the skillet with warm water. Let them sit until soft
   and re-hydrated, about half an hour.
2. If using dried aromatics, skip.
  1. Heat up a tsp of cooking oil in a saute pan, over medium heat.
  2. Cook the onions for 5 minutes.
  3. Add the garlic and cook for another minute.
3. Throw the onions and garlic in a blender.
  1. Add the black garlic, tomatoes, brown sugar, apple cider vinegar, paprika,
     cumin, coriander, cinnamon, oregano, water, hydrated ancho chiles, and salt.
  2. Adjust liquid if not using can tomatoes.
  3. Pure until smooth.
  4. Set aside.
4. Add the beans, bay leaves (granulated garlic and dried shallots) and beef
   broth to the Instant Pot.
5. Seal and cook on High Pressure per [[#Instant Pot Dried Beans]]. Texture
   should be slightly under cooked.
6. Stir in the reserved chile pureé.
7. Set Instant Pot to Slow Cook with vent valve open.
  1. Adjust power level to More (High).
  2. Set time to 1 hour.
  3. Continue to cook the beans uncovered until tender and the sauce has
     reduced, stirring occasionally.
8. Taste and adjust seasonings. Serve warm.

== Cowboy Beans ==

Derived from [[https://www.food.com/recipe/ranch-style-beans-aka-cowboy-beans-85199?units=us&scale=6|Ranch Style Beans aka Cowboy Beans]].
Adapted for a Instant Pot, using [[#Instant Pot Dried Beans]].

Ingredients:

- 1 lb dry pinto beans
- 8 cups water (4 cups of beef stock and 4 cups water)
- 1 medium onion, diced
- 1 bell pepper, diced
- 2 cloves garlic, minced
- 5 ounces diced tomatoes
- 5 ounces diced green chiles
- 1 Tb chili powder
- 1⁄2 tsp dry mustard
- 1⁄2 tsp pepper
- 1⁄2 tsp salt
- 2 Tb Worcestershire sauce
- sugar to taste, depending on acidity after cooking.

Directions:

1. Place rinsed beans in the Instant Pot and add water. One inch of water
   above the beans should be sufficient. Add more later if needed.
2. Seal and cook on High Pressure per [[#Instant Pot Dried Beans]]. Beans
   should be slightly under cooked.
3. Saute onion, bell pepper, tomatoes and green chiles. If using canned or fire
   roasted tomatoes and chiles, reserve them for the Instant Pot.
  1. Heat up a tsp of cooking oil in a saute pan, over medium heat.
  2. Cook the aromatics for 5 minutes.
  3. Add the garlic and cook for another minute.
  4. Transfer to the Instant Pot.
4. Add chili powder, mustard, pepper and salt to the Instant Pot.
5. Add water if needed.
6. Set Instant Pot to Slow Cook with vent valve open.
  1. Adjust power level to More (High).
  2. Set time to 1 hour.
  3. Continue to cook the beans until tender and the liquid has reduced,
     stirring occasionally.
7. Add Worcestershire sauce.
8. Taste and adjust seasonings. Serve warm.

== Frijoles Refritos ==

Derived from [[https://www.rickbayless.com/recipe/well-fried-beans|Rick Bayless' Well-fried Beans]] and Diana Kennedy's
_Frijoles de Olla (Pot Beans)_ and _Frijoles Refritos (Refried Beans)_
([[#ref-Kennedy2008|Kennedy 2008, 179--180]]).

*Ingredients*:

- 2 lb dry beans
- 2 Tb bacon drippings
- 2 large onions
- 2-3 bay leaves
- 1 large sprig fresh epazote (1 Tb dried)
- 1 garlic bulb peeled and finely chopped
- ¼ cup lard
- 2 Tb Worcestershire sauce
- salt

*Directions*:

1. Rinse beans and add to Instant Pot.
2. Add 3 qt water, bay leaves, epazote and bacon drippings.
3. Add one roughly chopped onion.
4. Pressure cook for 1 hour and natural release for 20 minutes.
5. Add 1-½ tsp salt
6. Heat dutch oven over medium heat.
7. Cook one diced onion until brown.
8. Add garlic and cook until fragrant.
9. Turn heat off.
10. With a slotted spoon, add several large spoonfuls of beans and mash.
11. Add bean broth to desired consistency.
12. Add Worcestershire sauce
13. Adjust seasoning.

*ref-Kennedy2008*:: Kennedy, Diana. 2008. *The Art of Mexican Cooking*. New York, NY: Clarkson Potter. [[https://penguinrandomhousehighereducation.com/book/?isbn=9780307383259]].
:: [[wn.zk:20240106-1442|Dried Bean Cookery]]

== Baked Eggs and Beans on Toast ==
:beans:toast:eggs:

Adapted from:
- [[https://web.archive.org/web/20140105211757/http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchens/baked-eggs-and-beans-on-toast-recipe/index.html|Web Archive]],
  Recipes, Food Network Kitchens, Baked Eggs and Beans on Toast
- [[https://www.thepetitecook.com/british-baked-beans/|The Petite Cook]] British Baked Beans

*Ingredients*:

Based on 2 lb dried beans:

- 3 Tb extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for brushing
- 2 onions finely minced
- 1 garlic bulb minced
- 3 pinches of dried thyme (optional)
- 1-½ tsp smoked paprika
- 3 Tb tomato paste
- 3 Tb balsamic vinegar
- 3 Tb Dijon mustard
- 2 Tb Worcestershire sauce or steak sauce
- 1 Tb maple syrup (to taste)
- 300 g pureéd tomatoes or tomato passata (2 cans fire roasted tomatoes)
- 1200 g (12 cups) cooked cannellini (navy) beans

Based on 4 servings:

- 8 large eggs
- 4 thick slices crusty bread
- 2 cups halved grape tomatoes
- ¼ cup chopped fresh cilantro
- Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper

*Directions for Eggs and Baked Beans*:

1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
2. Heat 3 Tb olive oil in a large ovenproof skillet over
   medium heat.
3. Sauté the onion until soft, stirring occasionally, about 5 minutes.
4. Sauté the garlic until fragrant, about 2 minutes.
5. Reduce heat to medium-low.
6. Add the tomato paste, mustard, thyme, smoked paprika, Worcestershire
   sauce, vinegar, and tomato passata.
7. Stir well and simmer for 2 minutes.
8. Add maple syrup to taste.
9. Salt and pepper to taste.
10. Add the beans and bean broth or water, as needed.
11. Simmer for 8 minutes over low heat, stirring every now and then, until the
    sauce has slightly thickened.
12. If baking without eggs, cover and transfer to the oven for 30 – 60 minutes.
13. Otherwise portion about 4 cups:
  1. Make eight indentations in the bean mixture and crack an egg into each.
  2. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and transfer to the oven.
  3. Bake until the egg whites are set, 10 to 14 minutes.

*Directions for Toast and Tomato Salad*:

1. Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat.
2. Brush the bread with olive oil on both sides and toast in the skillet, 1
   minute per side.
3. Toss the tomatoes, cilantro, and ½ Tb olive oil
4. Salt and pepper to taste in a bowl.
5. Divide the toast among plates; top each with 2 eggs, some beans and the
   tomato salad.

== Chili ==
:chili:beans:ancho:

Adapted from [[https://www.rickbayless.com/recipe/fronteras-award-winning-chili/|Rick Bayless' Frontera's Award Winning Chili]]
and [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mb3k0wApWas|The SHOCKING SECRET to great chili by Adam Ragusea]]
Based on 2 lb dried beans.

*Ingredients*:

_Ancho seasoning base_

- 2 bulbs garlic, separate the cloves but do not peel
- 16 medium (about 8 ounces total) dried ancho chiles (½ c ground)
- 1 Tb dried oregano
- 1 tsp black pepper, whole or freshly ground
- ¼ tsp cumin seeds, whole or freshly ground
- A scant ½ tsp cloves, whole or freshly ground
- Salt, about 2 tsp

_Chili_

- 2 Tb bacon drippings or oil
- 1 pounds meat (optional) cut into 1/2-inch cubes
- 2 large white onion, chopped
- 6 cups broth
- 2 cups Beer
- Salt
- Sugar
- 2 cups canned tomatoes
- 4 Tb Masa Harina
- 12 cups slightly under cooked beans
- Dark chocolate to taste (~4 Tb cocoa powder or shaved chocolate).

*Directions*:

1. Warm griddle to medium heat.
2. Roast unpeeled garlic until soft, about 15 minutes.
3. Cool, peel and roughly chop.
4. For whole chiles, remove chile stems, split and shake out seeds.
5. Toast both sides by pressing with a spatula on a medium griddle, avoid scorching.
  1. Rehydrate with water for 30 minutes
  2. Discard water
6. Grind any whole spices
7. Pureé chiles and spices with minimal amount of broth.
8. Strain out any remaining skins or seeds.
9. Season with salt.
10. Warm stock pot to medium-high and heat drippings.
11. Fry the meat and onions until brown
12. Drain excess fat.
13. Stir in and cook ancho seasoning to temper raw flavor.
14. Add beans, broth, beer, and tomatoes.
15. Simmer gently for 1 hour.
16. Add dark chocolate
17. Add sugar and salt to taste.
18. If needed, thicken with Masa Harina mixed with water.

== Red Beans and Rice ==
:beans:rice:pico:salsa:

*Ingredients*:

_Beans_

- 1 lb ground sausage
- Olive oil for sautéing
- 2 cup chopped celery
- 2 cup chopped onion (1 large)
- 1 clove chopped garlic
- 3 qt water
- 2 lb red beans
- 4 bay leaves
- 1 Tb _herbs de provence_
- 1 Tb [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/penzeys-salsa-pico/c-24/p-3092/pd-s|Penzeys Salsa & Pico]]
- 2 lb dried red beans
- 2 oz soy sauce
- 1 lb smoked andouille or kielbasa sausage, sliced diagonally, ½-inch.

_Rice_

- 4 cups rice
- 2 cups coconut milk
- 2 cups water

*Directions*:

_Beans_

1. Brown sausage in a stock pot, adding olive oil if needed.
2. Drain fat, remove sausage and reserve.
3. Sauté celery and onion in sausage fat, adding olive oil if needed.
4. When vegetables are tender and aromatic, add the garlic and sauté until fragrant.
5. Add water and simmer for approximately 20 minutes.
6. Strain liquid into Instant Pot and add beans and herbs.
7. Cook according [[#Instant Pot Dried Beans|Instant Pot Dried Beans]].
8. Add soy sauce to taste.
9. Add beans and liquid to stock pot.
10. Return ground sausage to stock pot.
11. Add sliced sausage.
12. Simmer until beans are tender.

_Rice_

1. Rinse rice.
2. Combine rice, coconut milk and water.
3. Cook on rice setting and quick release when done.
