= Coffee =
:recipe:coffee:

== Contents ==
- [[#Coffee]]
  - [[#French Press Coffee]]
  - [[#Chicory Coffee]]
  - [[#Iced Meso Mocha Breve]]
    - [[#Chocolate Sauce]]

== French Press Coffee ==
:coffee:

[[https://youtu.be/st571DYYTR8|The Ultimate French Press Technique by James Hoffmann]]
recommends a Coffee to Water Ratio of 60 – 70 g/l.

1. Rinse empty press with 200 °F water and discard water after grinding coffee.
2. Add 30 g coffee (OXO Barista Brain 4 cups = 33 g), grind-stop 10 for OXO
   Barista Brain.
3. Add 500 g, 200 °F water.
4. Steep 4 minutes or [[https://youtu.be/Y8cbxTumzvg|wibble, wobble, double nipple]] per Mrs. Marlowe of Brokenwood.
5. Stir gently and skim coarse grounds and foam.
6. Steep at least 5 – 8 minutes.
7. Push plunger to top of liquid and pore gently.

== Chicory Coffee ==
:chicory:

1. 500 ml, 200 °F water
2. 24 g ground chicory
3. 24 g ground coffee
4. Prepare per [[#French Press Coffee]].

== Iced Meso Mocha Breve ==
:coffee:mocha:

My attempt at Tucson's [[https://www.cafepassetucson.com/|Cafe Passe]] Meso
Mocha with some changes to avoid ingredients that do not store well for weeks.
The original uses chocolate syrup, which does not keep long enough to make at
home.  The peppers are stronger than the original. The sugar is 3 Tbs:4 Tbs
cocoa powder; most recipes have a 1:1 or higher ratio.

Yield: 2 × 16 oz

1. Add dry ingredients to a mixing bowl.
  1. 36 g sugar
  2. 30 g Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/natural-cocoa-powder/c-24/p-913/pd-s|Natural High Fat Cocoa Powder]]
  3. 1/4 tsp Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/chipotle-pepper-ground-red/c-24/p-866/pd-s|Chipotle Pepper Ground Red]]
  4. 1/4 tsp Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/black-and-red-spice/c-24/p-25/pd-s|Black and Red Spice]]
  5. 1/4 heaping tsp Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/vietnamese-cinnamon-ground/c-24/p-955/pd-s|Vietnamese Cinnamon Ground]]
2. Whisk dry ingredients to reduce clumps.
3. Add 2 shots (2 oz) of hot espresso and whisk until paste is smooth,
   scrapping down sides of the bowl.
4. Whisk in additional espresso shot(s) to taste, typically 2 – 4.
  1. If one drink should be stronger, reserve additional espresso shot(s) in
     the refrigerator or freezer.
5. Allows flavors to merge, in the bowl, at room temperature, i.e.,
   5 – 10 minutes on the counter top.
6. Add enough half-cream to bring mix to approximately 16 oz, i.e., ~12 oz.
7. Divide equally between two, 16 oz, tumbler cups.
8. Add reserved espresso
9. Chill in freezer for ~20 minutes (optional)
10. Fill cups with ice.
11. Top up with half-cream and stir until well mixed.

=== Chocolate Sauce ===
:chocolate:

Derived from:

[[https://barefeetinthekitchen.com/simple-homemade-chocolate-sauce/#wprm-recipe-container-22065|Barefeet in the Kitchen Simple Homemade Chocolate Sauce]]

Yield: 7 servings (53 g)

Ingredients:

- 210 g Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/natural-cocoa-powder/c-24/p-913/pd-s|Natural High Fat Cocoa Powder]]
- 252 g sugar
- ¼ tsp kosher salt (4 pinches)
- 1-¾ tsp (4 g) Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/chipotle-pepper-ground-red/c-24/p-866/pd-s|Chipotle Pepper Ground Red]]
- 1-¾ tsp (6 g) Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/black-and-red-spice/c-24/p-25/pd-s|Black and Red Spice]]
- 2 tsp (8 g) Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/vietnamese-cinnamon-ground/c-24/p-955/pd-s|Vietnamese Cinnamon Ground]]
- 1-½ cup cold water
- 1 tsp Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/vanilla-double-strength/c-24/p-1519/pd-s|double-strength vanilla]]
- 2 tsp Penzeys Spices [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/vanilla-mexican/c-24/p-3086/pd-s|Mexican vanilla]]

Directions:

1. In a cold saucepan, whisk together the cocoa and the sugar until all lumps
   are removed.
2. Add the spices, salt, and water and bring to a boil over medium to
   medium-high heat.
3. Reduce to a simmer; stirring constantly. Simmer for about 30 seconds and
   then remove from heat.
4. Let cool and then add vanilla. Pour into a glass jar and refrigerate until
   needed.
