= Cooking =
:cookery:cooking:recipes:

- [[https://coolconversion.com/cooking-volume-weight/|CoolConversion Ingredients Volume To Weight]]
- [[Coffee]]
- [[Beans|Dried Beans Recipes]]
- [[Drinks]]

== Hot Sauce and BBQ Sauce ==
:hot_sauce:

- [[https://pepperscale.com/hot-sauce-rankings/|PepperScale Hot Sauce Rankings]]

=== Vinegar Based Carolina BBQ Sauce ===
:vinegar:bbq:sauce:NC:

Derived from:

- [[https://mandiofthemountains.com/vinegar-based-eastern-carolina-bbq-sauce/|Mandi of the Mountains, Eastern Carolina BBQ Sauce (Vinegar Based)]]
- [[https://meatwave.com/recipes/barbecue-sauce-recipe-north-carolina-vinegar-sauce|The Meatwave, North Carolina Vinegar Sauce]]
- [[https://momwithaprep.com/best-north-carolina-vinegar-bbq-sauce-recipe/|Mom Prepared, Best North Carolina Vinegar BBQ Sauce Recipe]]
- [[https://outerbanksrecipes.com/recipes/best-eastern-north-carolina-bbq-sauce-recipe/|Outer Banks Recipes, Best Eastern North Carolina BBQ Sauce Recipe]]
- [[https://www.asouthernsoul.com/carolina-vinegar-bbq-sauce/|A Southern Soul, Carolina Vinegar BBQ Sauce]]
- [[https://www.billyparisi.com/vinegar-based-carolina-bbq-sauce-recipe|Chef Billy Parisi, Vinegar Based Carolina BBQ Sauce Recipe]]
- [[https://www.myforkinglife.com/vinegar-bbq-sauce-north-carolina-style/|My Forking Life, Vinegar BBQ Sauce North Carolina Style]]

Ingredients:

- 2 cups of apple cider vinegar
- 1 Tb of ketchup
- 2 Tb dark brown sugar
- 1 tsp salt
- 2 tsp garlic granules
- 2 tsp onion granules
- 2 tsp black pepper
- 2 tsp smoked paprika
- 1 Tb red pepper flakes
- 2 Tb Worcestershire sauce
- 1 Tb hot sauce (Tabasco™, Texas Pete™, or Crystal Hot Sauce™)

Directions:

1. Dissolve vinegar, brown sugar and salt in a sauce pan and bring to boil.
2. Add other ingredients and simmer for 15 minutes.
3. Adjust salt and sugar to taste.

== Bakade Ägg (Baked Eggs) ==
:eggs:breakfast:

Adapted from [[https://www.broderpdx.com/nord-menu|Broder Nord]] and [[https://bakeitwithlove.com/baked-eggs/#recipe|Baked It with Love, Baked Eggs]].

== Uunipuuro (Finnish Oven Porridge) ==
:oats:breakfast:

Adapted from

- [[https://www.broderpdx.com/nord-menu|Broder Nord]]
- [[https://recipes.fandom.com/wiki/Uunipuuro|Fandom Recipes Wiki Uunipuuro]]
- [[https://wellspentmarket.com/blogs/recipes/finnish-style-baked-porridge|Wellspent Market Finnish Style Baked Porridge]]

*Ingredients*:

- Pearl barley, rolled oats, steel cut oats, and/or buckwheat
  - ½ cup flaked/rolled grain
  - ¾ cup whole/steel cut grain
- 2 cups water
- 2 cups milk
- 1 tsp salt

*Directions*:

== Cocoa Gravy ==
:cocoa:gravy:sauce:

Derived from [[https://www.food.com/recipe/sweet-spicy-chocolate-gravy-442606|Sweet & Spicy Chocolate Gravy]]
for 4½ dozen pieces of french toast.

Ingredients:

- ⅔ cups unsweetened cocoa powder (more or less)
- ½ cup all-purpose flour
- 1⅓ cups powdered sugar (granulated also works just fine)
- 1 quart whole milk
- 71 g (5 Tb) butter (or bacon fat)
- 4 tsp vanilla
- ½ teaspoon salt
- ¼ tsp cinnamon
- ¼ tsp chipotle powder
- ¼ tsp [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/black-and-red-spice/c-24/p-25/pd-s|Black and Red Spice]] (equal portions black pepper and cayenne)

Directions:

1. Heat skillet or sauce pan over medium-low heat, add butter or bacon fat until melted.
2. Sprinkle in flour slowly and whisk until smooth.
3. Add chocolate and sugar, whisk until fully blended; cook 1-2 minutes, careful to not burn.
4. Slowly add milk, whisk continuously to prevent lumps.
5. Add vanilla, salt, and cayenne.
6. Cook a few minutes until gravy thickens. Whisk in more milk for a thinner gravy.

== Mignonette Pepper ==
:pepper:seasoning:

Most mignonette pepper recipes include all spice berries and only include white
and black peppercorns. This is based on the ground pepper available as
[[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/mignonette-pepper/c-24/p-207/pd-s|Pensey's Mignonette Pepper]].


| Pepper    | g/Tb | g/Jar |
|-----------|-----:|------:|
| Coriander |    5 |    20 |
| Black     |   11 |    44 |
| White     |   13 |    52 |
| Szechuan  |    4 |    16 |
| Green     |    7 |    28 |

== Santa Maria Rub ==
:tritip:rub:beef:seasoning:

Worked well on Tri Tip of beef. Derived from
[[https://forum.cookshack.com/topic/low-sodium-steak-seasonings-or-marinades?reply=587205936925127862#587205936925127862|Cookshack topic low sodium steak seasonings or marinades]].

- 1 Tb ground mignonette pepper
- 2 tsp granulated garlic
- 1 teaspoon granulated shallots
- 1 1/2 tsp paprika
- 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
- 1 teaspoon _herbs de provence_
- 1/2 teaspoon salt

== Smoked Pork Top Loin ==
:toploin:rub:pork:seasoning:

*Ingredients*:

- [[https://www.traeger.com/recipes/ancho-rubbed-pork-loin|Traeger BBQ Ancho-Rubbed Pork Loin]]
  produces more rub than needed.
  - Substitute [[https://penzeys.com/online-catalog/33rd-galena-seasoning/c-24/p-307/pd-s|Pensey's 33rd & Galena Seasoning]] for oregano.
  - Substitute [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/italian-herb-mix/c-24/p-183/pd-s|Pensey's Italian Herb Mix]] for paprika, pepper and chile de árbol.
  - Substitute leftover seasonings, e.g.:
    - [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/vindaloo-seasoning/c-24/p-138/pd-s|Penzey's Vindaloo]]
    - [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/sweet-curry-powder/c-24/p-108/pd-s|Penzey's Sweet Curry Powder]]
    - [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/rogan-josh-seasoning/c-24/p-149/pd-s|Penzey's Rogan Josh]]
    - [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/maharajah-style-curry-powder/c-24/p-144/pd-s|Penzey's Maharajah Style Curry Powder]]
    - [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/bbq-3001-seasoning/c-24/p-429/pd-s|Pensey's BBQ 3001]]
    - [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/bbq-3000/c-24/p-327/pd-s|Penzey's BBQ 3000]] (contains salt)
- Salt separately to manage sodium.
- Spritz:
  - Cider vinegar and beer or
  - Pineapple juice
- Balsamic vinegar

*Directions*:

1. Score the fat cap.
2. Added salt directly to top loin to reduce sodium.
   Thin uniform sprinkle on all sides before apply rub.
3. Apply rub on all sides and allow time to adhere before rotating to another side.
4. Wrap tightly in cling wrap and refrigerate over night on a rack to allow air circulation on all sides.

[[https://blog.thermoworks.com/pork/smoked-pork-loin/|Thermoworks Pork Smoked Pork Loin]]
recommends smoking at 250 °F until internal temperature reaches 140 °F.

[[https://www.traeger.com/recipes/smoked-pork-loin|Traeger Smoked Pork Loin]]
comments recommend ignoring time,
cooking at low temperature, until stalling at 125 °F, and
then increasing to 350 °F to finish.
Apply prepared mustard prior to applying rub.
Smoke at 180 °F, spritz with cider vinegar and beer
every 30 minutes until 135 °F.
Finish at 350 °F until 150 °F.
Drizzle with balsamic vinegar 30 minutes before cooking and
spritz with pineapple juice to retain moisture.

- Use cooking instructions from
  [[https://www.traeger.com/recipes/smoked-pork-loin|Traeger Smoked Pork Loin]]
  - 140 ⁰F internal temperature after 2 hours at low smoke setting (180 °F)
    Fat cap should be on top.
  - Rotate loins in smoker periodically for uniform cooking.
    Hottest zone was near drip pan.
- Place loin(s) in covered roasting dish or wrap in foil.
- Add a small amount of braising liquid, e.g., beer and apple cider vinegar.
  Enough liquid to cover the bottom of the pan should be sufficient.
  Steam from the liquid prevents the loin drying out since the fat cap is not
  large enough to meet that need.
- Braise covered for 30 minutes, at 350 °F.
  Final internal temperature should be ~180 °F.
- Rest for 30 minutes.

== Olive Tapanade ==
:tapanade:olives:condiment:

Ingredients:

- 1 cup (180 g) black olives, pitted (Καλαμάτα)
- 1 cup (180 g) green olives, pitted (Castelvetrano)
- 3 anchovy fillets, rinsed and patted dry
- 3 Tb (22.5 g) drained capers
- 3 Tb olive oil
- 2 Tb lemon juice or brandy
- 3 garlic cloves
- 3 tsp _Herbes de Provence_
- Mint leaves and cilantro
- black pepper

Directions:

1. Depending on preservation method, anchovies, capers and olives may need
   rinsing and patting dry to manage salt.
2. Puree olive oil, capers, anchovies, garlic and herbs in food processor.
3. Process olives through a meat grinder (or food processor) to desired
   texture.
4. Combine olives with puree.
5. Some olives are stored in vinegar, so taste and adjust acidity with lemon
   juice or brandy.
6. Add ground pepper to taste.

== Dutch Baby ==
:breakfast:

Adapted from
[[https://youtu.be/xFIyWfrmF6E|Dutch baby — sweet and savory popover pancakes]]
by Adam Ragusea

Ingredients:

- eggs (one per person, 2 in a 10 in / 25 cm pan)
- milk (80 ml per egg)
- flour (20 g per egg)
- corn starch (20 g per egg)
- salt (a pinch per egg)
- sugar (1 teaspoon per egg, sweet or savory)
- granulated garlic (pinch)
- vanilla (only for sweet)
- spreadable cheese, like Rondele Cheese Spread Garlic & Herb, feta, ricotta,
  brie or mascarpone (OPTIONAL 1 Tb per egg)
- butter
- toppings (lemon juice and powdered sugar is nice for sweet, eggs/salami/onion
  is nice for savory)

Directions:

1. Warm the eggs and the milk before mixing to room temperature.
2. Combine the eggs, salt, sugar, garlic (optional), soft cheese (optional) and
   vanilla (optional) in a mixing bowl and whisk until frothy.
3. Whisk in the flour until smooth, then whisk in the milk. Or blender all at
   once.
4. Rest at least 20 minutes before baking.
5. Put your pan cast iron skillet in the oven and preheat to 425ºF/220ºC.
6. Melt in a thick film of butter.
7. Pour in the batter and return the pan to the oven.
8. Bake until puffy and golden (~20 minutes).
9. Add eggs and savory toppings at ~15 minutes, after maximum rise.
10. Return to the pan to the oven until the eggs finish cooking.
11. Transfer to a cooling rack, until steam collapses.

== Tortillas de Harina ==
:tortillas:

[[https://ladyandpups.com/2021/05/13/paper-thin-soft-chewy-sonoran-style-flour-tortilla/|Paper Thin Soft Chewy, Sonoran-Style Flour Tortilla]]

Ingredients:

- 2 cups (260 grams) bread flour with 12 - 14% protein
- 1 tsp (4 grams) light brown sugar
- 1/4 tsp (4 grams) fine sea salt
- 3/4 cup (180 grams) hot water at 140 - 150°F/60 - 65°C
- 4 tbsp (56 grams) lard or goose/chicken fat or unsalted butter, not melted
- 2 tsp all-purpose flour

Directions:

1. In microwave or on stove, heat water to 140 - 15°F/60 - 65°C. In a stand-mixer
   with dough-hook, mix bread flour, sugar, sea salt and hot water on low speed
   until it comes into a cohesive dough. Increase the speed to medium-high and
   knead for another 10 to 15 minutes, until the dough is elastic and smooth.
   It should pull away cleanly from the sides and bottom of the bowl, but
   sticks right back when the machine stops. If it's too dry, add a teaspoon
   more water, and if too wet, add a teaspoon more flour. Knead for an extra 5
   minutes for each addition. Add 2 tbsp of lard (or other types of fat you're
   using) into the bowl, and knead on medium-high speed for another 10 minutes,
   until the dough again pulls away cleanly from the side and bottom of the
   bowl, but sticks back when the machine stops. Adding the fat later instead
   of in the beginning, gives the dough more chance to develop more gluten
   formation. Cover the bowl and let rest for at least one hour. You can also
   keep it in the fridge overnight.
2. Meanwhile, melt the remaining 2 tbsp of fat in a small pot and whisk in 2
   tsp of flour. Continue to cook on low heat until the flour is light brown in
   color, about 5 minutes. Let cool completely.
3. (The following instruction is tailored to making 13-inches/33 cm tortillas.
   If you don't have a griddle or skillet that big, you'll need to adjust the
   numbers accordingly). Once the dough is rested, transfer it onto a lightly
   floured surface and divide into 8 equal portions (if you're making smaller
   tortillas, you'll need to divide into higher even numbers, like 10 portions
   for 12 inches skillet, or 12 portions for 10 inches skillet, so on so
   forth). Shape each portions into smooth balls and arrange them in the
   chronological orders they are handled (this allows each dough to have equal
   resting time between handling).
4. Now go back to the first two balls, dusting with flour as needed, and roll
   each one out into 6 inches/15 cm wide disks. Generously brush the fat-flour
   mixture on one of the disk all the way to the edges, leaving zero margin,
   and place the other one on top. Set the stack on the side, and repeat with
   the rest of the dough balls, again arranging them in the chronological order
   they are handled. You'll have 4 stacks in total.
5. Now go back to the first stack you made, dusting with flour as needed, and
   roll it out as thinly as you can, so thin that you can almost see a little
   of your counter top through it, which will be about 13 inches/33 cm (smaller
   if you're using smaller skillet and smaller portions of dough). It's very
   important that you keep flipping it back and forth so the two stacked
   tortillas are rolled out evenly in thinness. As explained in the video, this
   technique allows you to create super thin tortillas without any special
   skills. Because you're rolling out two stacked tortillas together as thinly
   as possible, and when they cook and separate, you get two tortillas that are
   only 1/2 the thickness of what you can typically get.
6. Brush the fat-flour mixture lightly on the surface of the griddle or
   skillet, which should be hot enough that it starts to smoke when the fat
   hits (if you're using cast-iron, it'll need to be preheated on medium-high
   heat for about 5 - 10 minutes). Gently place the tortilla on top. The griddle
   or skillet should be hot enough that it only takes about 10 seconds for the
   first side to take on tiny brown spots but not burning it. Flip it back and
   forth while pressing on it with a spatula, until the tortillas starts to
   puff up all around and have little blistered brown spots on both sides.
   Transfer onto a plate or basket and cover with a damp towel. Repeat with the
   rest.
7. Once cool enough to handle, simply separate the two tortillas from each
   other, which should be very easy. This technique will leave one side of the
   tortilla un-blistered, which I think is fine because they are soft, chewy
   and flavorful as is. If you want char on the other side, too, I would
   strongly advice NOT to toast the other side on the griddle as this will dry
   it out. Instead, torch only the back side lightly with a blow-torch until
   there are tiny black dots here and there, which adds good charcoal flavor to
   it, too. This is a great way to re-heat the tortilla as well if you are
   making them a couple hours ahead of time. But I would not recommend making
   then longer than couple hours ahead. Fresh tortillas are still the best.

== Tacos al Pastor ==
:taco:

- [[https://www.seriouseats.com/tacos-al-pastor-recipe|Seriouseats Tacos Al Pastor Recipe]]
- [[https://heygrillhey.com/smoked-al-pastor/|hey grill hey tacos al pastor]]

Ingredients:

- 2 whole ancho chiles, seeds and stems removed
- 2 whole pasilla or guajillo chiles, seeds and stems removed
- 1 cup homemade or store-bought low-sodium chicken stock
- 2 tsp olive oil
- 1 teaspoon dried Mexican oregano
- 1 teaspoon dried ground cumin seed
- 1 Tb achiote powder or paste
- 1 can chipotle chile packed in adobo sauce (198 g)
- 1/4 cup distilled white vinegar
- 3 cloves garlic
- 1 1/4 tsp kosher salt
- 2 tsp sugar
- 2 pounds boneless pork butt
- 8 ounces (1/2 pound) sliced bacon
- 1 small pineapple, peeled, cored, and cut into quarters lengthwise
- 32 to 48 corn tortillas, heated and kept warm
- 1 medium white onion, finely diced (about 1 cup)
- 1/2 cup finely minced fresh cilantro leaves and tender stems
- 1 cup basic salsa verde or your favorite salsa
- 3 to 4 limes, cut into 8 wedges each

Directions

1. Place chiles in a large saucepan over medium high heat and cook, turning
   chiles occasionally, until puffed, pliable, lightly browned in spots, and
   very aromatic, about 5 minutes. Add chicken stock (it should boil
   immediately), then pour contents of pan into a small bowl. Cover loosely
   and set aside.
2. Wipe out saucepan, add oil, and return to medium-high heat until oil is
   shimmering. Add cumin, oregano, and achiote and cook, stirring frequently,
   until aromatic but not browned, about 30 seconds. Add chipotle chiles and
   sauce and cook until aromatic, about 30 seconds longer. Add vinegar, salt,
   and sugar and remove from heat.
3. Scrape contents of saucepan into a blender along with garlic and chiles
   with their soaking liquid. Blend on high speed until completely smooth,
   about 1 minute, scraping down sides as necessary. Set sauce aside to cool
   slightly.
4. Have butcher thin slice pork butt. Pound slices into thin sheets.Transfer to a
   large bowl. Repeat with remaining meat.
5. Add marinade to bowl and toss with hands until every piece of meat is
   evenly coated in marinade.
6. Line the bottom of a disposable aluminum loaf pan with bacon. Add a layer
   of thin-sliced marinated meat. Continue layering in bacon and meat until
   all the meat is used up. (It may pile above the pan a little bit. This is
   ok.) Cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 4 hours
   and up to 36.
7. *To cook indoors*: Preheat the oven to 275°F. Uncover aluminum loaf pan and
   place on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet. Transfer to oven and cook until
   meat is completely tender (It will drip lots of fat), about 4 hours. Remove
   from oven, allow to cool slightly, cover with aluminum foil, and
   refrigerate for at least 2 hours and up to overnight.
8. *To cook outdoors*: Light half a chimney of charcoal and allow to preheat
   until coals are mostly covered in gray ash. Spread out under one half of
   coal grate, and place cooking grate on top. Alternatively, set one set of
   burners on a gas grill to low and leave the remaining burners off. Unwrap
   aluminum loaf pan and place directly over cooler side of grill, placing a
   drip pan underneath if desired. Cover grill and cook until loaf registers
   180 to 190°F in the center, about 4 hours, adding more coals to grill or
   adjusting burners as necessary to maintain an air temperature of around
   275°F for the duration of cooking. Remove from grill, allow to cool
   slightly, cover with aluminum foil, and refrigerate at least 2 hours and up
   to overnight.
9. *To cook in smoker*:
  1. *Preheat your smoker*. Preheat your smoker to 275 degrees F using your
     favorite hardwood.
  2. *Assemble the meat on the spit*. Using a vertical skewer or rotisserie
     attachment, slide the meat onto the skewer one piece at a time, keeping
     the meat even around the edges and sides so there aren't any large pieces
     of meat overhanging any other.
  3. *Smoke the al pastor*. Place the assembled al pastor meat on the grill
     grates and close the lid. Smoke for about 4 hours, or until the internal
     temperature of the pork in the thickest portion reads 145 degrees F. If
     using a vertical skewer, baste the outside of the meat with the drippings
     from the pan every 30 minutes during the cooking process (skip this step
     if cooking on a rotisserie, it will self-baste)
  4. *Grill the pineapple*. During the last 30 minutes of smoking, place the
     pineapple wedges on the grill next to the al pastor. Close the lid and
     cook, flipping once after 15 minutes.
10. *To Serve*: Preheat oven to 350°F. Remove cooked meat from aluminum tray,
   scraping off any fat or jellied juices from its sides. Use a spoon to
   collect fat and juices from tray, reserving each separately. Using a sharp
   chef's knife or slicing knife, slice meat as thinly as possible to create
   fine shavings of meat and fat. Transfer to a bowl.
11. If fat from meat is solid, heat gently in the microwave or in the oven
    until melted. Transfer pineapple pieces to a rimmed baking sheet lined
    with aluminum foil. Brush with fat. Transfer to oven and roast until
    completely tender, about 25 minutes. Remove from oven and allow to cool
    slightly.
12. About 10 minutes before pineapple is done roasting, transfer meat and 1
    Tb of fat to a large cast iron or non-stick skillet. Heat over
    medium high heat, stirring occasionally, until meat crisps and deeply
    browns in spots. Add any reserved juices and toss to combine, allowing it
    to cook until reduced to a moist glaze. Transfer meat to a warmed serving
    bowl.
13. Chop roasted pineapple into large chunks. Serve meat and pineapple
    immediately with warmed tortillas, onions, cilantro, salsa, and lime
    wedges. Meat will be very moist and should be packed into double-stacked
    tortillas for serving.

== Backlinks ==
- [[/Topic_Index|Topic_Index]]
- [[/index|John D. Fisher's home wiki]]
