= Drink Recipes =

== Contents ==
- [[#Drink Recipes]]
  - [[#Margarita]]
  - [[#Martini]]
    - [[#Dry Martini]]
    - [[#Perfect Martini]]
    - [[#White Lady]]
  - [[#Tea]]
    - [[#Karak Chai]]
  - [[#Backlinks]]

== Margarita ==
:margarita:

Adapted from
[[https://www.simplyrecipes.com/recipes/classic_margarita/|Classic Margarita]].
The proportions doubled to fit my cocktail glass. The lime juice doubled again
to balance the añejo tequila.

- 3 oz tequila
- 2 oz Cointreau
- 2 oz lime juice

== Martini ==
:martini:

Adapted from [[https://www.youtube.com/shorts/V-yxUMugyZU|AB's New Martini]].
500 ml tray makes 18 ice cubes, which are not large enough for one per drink.
For 2 cubes per drink, freeze 200 ml vermouth and 100 ml water.

- 4.5 oz (6 parts) London dry gin
- 2 cubes frozen (1 part) dry vermouth and (½ part) water
- 2 dashes bitters
- 1 olive

1. Combine ingredients in chilled martini glass.
2. Skewer the olive and stir.
3. Wait two minutes.

=== Dry Martini ===

- 6 part gin
- 1 part dry vermouth
- 2 dash orange bitters
- 1 inch strip of peel from an un-waxed lemon or skewered olives

=== Perfect Martini ===

- [[https://www.diffordsguide.com/cocktails/recipe/1509/perfect-martini|Diffordsguide Cocktails Recipe Perfect Martini]]

- 4 part gin
- 1/2 part dry vermouth
- 1/2 part sweet vermouth
- 1 dash orange bitters
- 1 inch strip of peel from an un-waxed lemon or skewered olives

=== White Lady ===

- 4 parts Empress 1898 Indigo gin
- 1 part lime or lemon juice
- 1.5 part Cointreau
- Pomegranate arils or orange peel

Shake for 10 seconds with ice and garnish with pomegranate arils or orange
peel.

== Tea ==
:tea:

CTC:: crush, tear, curl is black tea processing method.

=== Karak Chai ===
:chai:milk:masala:

Derived from [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nFWgmhIxSKY|The Secret INGREDIENT Chaiwala Karak Chai]].
Scaled for 2900 ml (No. 10 can) coconut milk, substituted for milk.

If using nut milk, gently warm or chill to match tea temperature.
Add nut milk after tea is prepared;
do not cook nut milk because it may break the emulsion.

*Ingredients*:

- Milk – 2900 ml
- Water – 2200 ml
- Cardamom – 15 pods
- Cloves – 15 pieces
- Ginger – 4 small slice (1 Tb [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/penzeys-minced-ginger/c-24/p-1024/pd-s|Penzeys Minced Ginger]])
- Cinnamon – 4 small stick
- [[cooking#Mignonette Pepper|Mignonette Pepper]] – 1 Tb
- CTC black tea – 1 cup (100 g)
- Sugar – 1 cup (200 g)

*Instructions*:

1. Crack cardamom pods.
2. Lightly crush remaining spices.
3. Add water and spices to 10 qt stock pot.
4. Bring to a boil over medium heat.
5. Lower the heat and add black tea.
6. Let it simmer gently for 5 minutes. Avoid boiling to prevent bitterness.
7. If using dairy or coconut milk,
   add milk and simmer on low heat,
   for 10 minutes.
8. Add sugar to taste.
9. Strain into serving teapot.

== Backlinks ==
- [[/index|John D. Fisher's Home Wiki]]
- [[/Topic_Index|Topic_Index]]
- [[/cooking|Cooking]]
