= John D. Fisher's home wiki =

[[https://github.com/jfishe/vimwiki|Home Vimwiki on Github]]

== Contents ==
- [[#John D. Fisher's home wiki]]
  - [[#Projects]]
  - [[#Computer]]
    - [[#Sweet Home 3D]]
    - [[#Fonts]]
    - [[#WiFi]]
  - [[#Electronics]]
    - [[#Motorola H17 Bluetooth Headset]]
  - [[#DIY]]
  - [[#Cooking]]
    - [[#Mignonette Pepper]]
    - [[#Santa Maria Rub]]
    - [[#Dutch Baby]]
    - [[#Tortillas de Harina]]
  - [[#Generated Links]]

== Projects ==

- [[Oh-my-zsh]]
- [[PowerShell]]
- [[Windows 10 Configuration]]
- [[Linux]]
- [[Git]]
- [[Python|Python Notes]]
- [[Health_Fitness|Health and_Fitness]]

== Computer ==

=== Sweet Home 3D ===

- Furniture, textures and licenses from v5.7.1 archived in
  `~/Documents/SweetHome3D`
- To load either copy to the appropriate directory in
  `%APPDATA%\eTeks\Sweet Home 3D` or double-click on individual files to
  import.

=== Fonts ===

- Explains how to use `fontforge`, which requires `X11 server`, such as
  `X410`: [[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10290912/|How do I get GNU Unifont or Free Mono working on gvim windows?]]
- [[https://github.com/jfishe/dotfiles#fonts-for-gvim|Fonts for Gvim]] in the
  [[https://github.com/jfishe/dotfiles|dotfiles]] repository lists several nice fonts.

=== WiFi ===

- To get WiFi security key content, type
  `netsh wlan show profile WiFi-name key=clear`.

== Electronics ==

=== Motorola H17 Bluetooth Headset ===
:motorola:bluetooth:

[[https://support.motorola.com/uk/en/solution/ms36639|Restore to Factory Settings]]::
:: With your headset on, press and hold both Volume buttons and Call button for 10 seconds until the indicator light is steady blue.

== DIY ==
:diy:

- [[Sisal_Rope|Cat Scratching Pole Sisal Rope Replacement]]

== Cooking ==

- [[Coffee]]
- [[Beans|Dried Beans Recipes]]
- [[Drinks]]

=== Mignonette Pepper ===
:pepper:seasoning:

Most mignonette pepper recipes include all spice berries and only include white
and black peppercorns. This is based on the ground pepper available as
[[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/mignonette-pepper/c-24/p-207/pd-s|Pensey's Mignonette Pepper]].


| Pepper    | g/Tb | g/Jar |
|-----------|-----:|------:|
| Coriander |    5 |    20 |
| Black     |   11 |    44 |
| White     |   13 |    52 |
| Szechuan  |    4 |    16 |
| Green     |    7 |    28 |

=== Santa Maria Rub ===
:tritip:rub:beef:seasoning:

Worked well on Tri Tip of beef. Derived from
[[https://forum.cookshack.com/topic/low-sodium-steak-seasonings-or-marinades?reply=587205936925127862#587205936925127862|Cookshack topic low sodium steak seasonings or marinades]].

- 1 tablespoon ground mignonette pepper
- 2 teaspoons granulated garlic
- 1 teaspoon granulated shallots
- 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika
- 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
- 1 teaspoon _herbs de provence_
- 1/2 teaspoon salt

=== Dutch Baby ===
:breakfast:

Adapted from
[[https://youtu.be/xFIyWfrmF6E|Dutch baby — sweet and savory popover pancakes]]
by Adam Ragusea

Ingredients:

- eggs (one per person, 2 in a 10 in / 25 cm pan)
- milk (80 ml per egg)
- flour (20 g per egg)
- corn starch (20 g per egg)
- salt (a pinch per egg)
- sugar (1 teaspoon per egg, sweet or savory)
- granulated garlic (pinch)
- vanilla (only for sweet)
- spreadable cheese, like Rondele Cheese Spread Garlic & Herb, feta, ricotta,
  brie or mascarpone (OPTIONAL 1 tablespoon per egg)
- butter
- toppings (lemon juice and powdered sugar is nice for sweet, eggs/salami/onion
  is nice for savory)

Directions:

1. Warm the eggs and the milk before mixing to room temperature.
2. Combine the eggs, salt, sugar, garlic (optional), soft cheese (optional) and
   vanilla (optional) in a mixing bowl and whisk until frothy.
3. Whisk in the flour until smooth, then whisk in the milk. Or blender all at
   once.
4. Rest at least 20 minutes before baking.
5. Put your pan cast iron skillet in the oven and preheat to 425ºF/220ºC.
6. Melt in a thick film of butter.
7. Pour in the batter and return the pan to the oven.
8. Bake until puffy and golden (~20 minutes).
9. Add eggs and savory toppings at ~15 minutes, after maximum rise.
10. Return to the pan to the oven until the eggs finish cooking.
11. Transfer to a cooling rack, until steam collapses.

=== Tortillas de Harina ===
:tortillas:

[[https://ladyandpups.com/2021/05/13/paper-thin-soft-chewy-sonoran-style-flour-tortilla/|Paper Thin Soft Chewy, Sonoran-Style Flour Tortilla]]

Ingredients:

- 2 cups (260 grams) bread flour with 12 - 14% protein
- 1 tsp (4 grams) light brown sugar
- 1/4 tsp (4 grams) fine sea salt
- 3/4 cup (180 grams) hot water at 140 - 150°F/60 - 65°C
- 4 tbsp (56 grams) lard or goose/chicken fat or unsalted butter, not melted
- 2 tsp all-purpose flour

Directions:

1. In microwave or on stove, heat water to 140 - 15°F/60 - 65°C. In a stand-mixer
   with dough-hook, mix bread flour, sugar, sea salt and hot water on low speed
   until it comes into a cohesive dough. Increase the speed to medium-high and
   knead for another 10 to 15 minutes, until the dough is elastic and smooth.
   It should pull away cleanly from the sides and bottom of the bowl, but
   sticks right back when the machine stops. If it's too dry, add a teaspoon
   more water, and if too wet, add a teaspoon more flour. Knead for an extra 5
   minutes for each addition. Add 2 tbsp of lard (or other types of fat you're
   using) into the bowl, and knead on medium-high speed for another 10 minutes,
   until the dough again pulls away cleanly from the side and bottom of the
   bowl, but sticks back when the machine stops. Adding the fat later instead
   of in the beginning, gives the dough more chance to develop more gluten
   formation. Cover the bowl and let rest for at least one hour. You can also
   keep it in the fridge overnight.
2. Meanwhile, melt the remaining 2 tbsp of fat in a small pot and whisk in 2
   tsp of flour. Continue to cook on low heat until the flour is light brown in
   color, about 5 minutes. Let cool completely.
3. (The following instruction is tailored to making 13-inches/33 cm tortillas.
   If you don't have a griddle or skillet that big, you'll need to adjust the
   numbers accordingly). Once the dough is rested, transfer it onto a lightly
   floured surface and divide into 8 equal portions (if you're making smaller
   tortillas, you'll need to divide into higher even numbers, like 10 portions
   for 12 inches skillet, or 12 portions for 10 inches skillet, so on so
   forth). Shape each portions into smooth balls and arrange them in the
   chronological orders they are handled (this allows each dough to have equal
   resting time between handling).
4. Now go back to the first two balls, dusting with flour as needed, and roll
   each one out into 6 inches/15 cm wide disks. Generously brush the fat-flour
   mixture on one of the disk all the way to the edges, leaving zero margin,
   and place the other one on top. Set the stack on the side, and repeat with
   the rest of the dough balls, again arranging them in the chronological order
   they are handled. You'll have 4 stacks in total.
5. Now go back to the first stack you made, dusting with flour as needed, and
   roll it out as thinly as you can, so thin that you can almost see a little
   of your counter top through it, which will be about 13 inches/33 cm (smaller
   if you're using smaller skillet and smaller portions of dough). It's very
   important that you keep flipping it back and forth so the two stacked
   tortillas are rolled out evenly in thinness. As explained in the video, this
   technique allows you to create super thin tortillas without any special
   skills. Because you're rolling out two stacked tortillas together as thinly
   as possible, and when they cook and separate, you get two tortillas that are
   only 1/2 the thickness of what you can typically get.
6. Brush the fat-flour mixture lightly on the surface of the griddle or
   skillet, which should be hot enough that it starts to smoke when the fat
   hits (if you're using cast-iron, it'll need to be preheated on medium-high
   heat for about 5 - 10 minutes). Gently place the tortilla on top. The griddle
   or skillet should be hot enough that it only takes about 10 seconds for the
   first side to take on tiny brown spots but not burning it. Flip it back and
   forth while pressing on it with a spatula, until the tortillas starts to
   puff up all around and have little blistered brown spots on both sides.
   Transfer onto a plate or basket and cover with a damp towel. Repeat with the
   rest.
7. Once cool enough to handle, simply separate the two tortillas from each
   other, which should be very easy. This technique will leave one side of the
   tortilla un-blistered, which I think is fine because they are soft, chewy
   and flavorful as is. If you want char on the other side, too, I would
   strongly advice NOT to toast the other side on the griddle as this will dry
   it out. Instead, torch only the back side lightly with a blow-torch until
   there are tiny black dots here and there, which adds good charcoal flavor to
   it, too. This is a great way to re-heat the tortilla as well if you are
   making them a couple hours ahead of time. But I would not recommend making
   then longer than couple hours ahead. Fresh tortillas are still the best.

== Generated Links ==
- [[Beans]]
- [[Coffee]]
- [[Drinks]]
- [[Git]]
- [[Health_Fitness]]
- [[Linux]]
- [[Oh-my-zsh]]
- [[PowerShell]]
- [[Python]]
- [[Sisal_Rope]]
- [[Windows 10 Configuration]]
- [[diary/diary]]
- [[index]]
