= John D. Fisher's home wiki =

== Contents ==
- [[#John D. Fisher's home wiki]]
  - [[#Projects]]
  - [[#Computer]]
    - [[#Sweet Home 3D]]
    - [[#Fonts]]
    - [[#WiFi]]
  - [[#Electronics]]
    - [[#Motorola H17 Bluetooth Headset]]
  - [[#DIY]]
  - [[#Cooking]]
    - [[#Mignonette Pepper]]
    - [[#Santa Maria Rub]]
    - [[#Ranch Style Beans]]
  - [[#Generated Links]]

== Projects ==

- [[Oh-my-zsh]]
- [[PowerShell]]
- [[Windows 10 Configuration]]
- [[Linux]]
- [[Git]]
- [[Python|Python Notes]]
- [[Health_Fitness|Health and_Fitness]]

== Computer ==

=== Sweet Home 3D ===

- Furniture, textures and licenses from v5.7.1 archived in
  `~/Documents/SweetHome3D`
- To load either copy to the appropriate directory in
  `%APPDATA%\eTeks\Sweet Home 3D` or double-click on individual files to
  import.

=== Fonts ===

- Explains how to use `fontforge`, which requires `X11 server`, such as
  `X410`: [[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10290912/|How do I get GNU Unifont or Free Mono working on gvim windows?]]
- [[https://github.com/jfishe/dotfiles#fonts-for-gvim|Fonts for Gvim]] in the
  [[https://github.com/jfishe/dotfiles|dotfiles]] repository lists several nice fonts.

=== WiFi ===

- To get WiFi security key content, type
  `netsh wlan show profile WiFi-name key=clear`.

== Electronics ==

=== Motorola H17 Bluetooth Headset ===
:motorola:bluetooth:

[[https://support.motorola.com/uk/en/solution/ms36639|Restore to Factory Settings]]::
:: With your headset on, press and hold both Volume buttons and Call button for 10 seconds until the indicator light is steady blue.

== DIY ==
:diy:

- [[Sisal_Rope|Cat Scratching Pole Sisal Rope Replacement]]

== Cooking ==

[[Coffee]]

=== Mignonette Pepper ===
:pepper:seasoning:

Most mignonette pepper recipes include all spice berries and only include white
and black peppercorns. This is based on the ground pepper available as
[[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/mignonette-pepper/c-24/p-207/pd-s|Pensey's Mignonette Pepper]].


| Pepper    | g/Tb | g/Jar |
|-----------|-----:|------:|
| Coriander |    5 |    20 |
| Black     |   11 |    44 |
| White     |   13 |    52 |
| Szechuan  |    4 |    16 |
| Green     |    7 |    28 |

=== Santa Maria Rub ===
:tritip:rub:beef:seasoning:

Worked well on Tri Tip of beef. Derived from
[[https://forum.cookshack.com/topic/low-sodium-steak-seasonings-or-marinades?reply=587205936925127862#587205936925127862|Cookshack topic low sodium steak seasonings or marinades]].

- 1 tablespoon ground mignonette pepper
- 2 teaspoons granulated garlic
- 1 teaspoon granulated shallots
- 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika
- 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
- 1 teaspoon _herbs de provence_
- 1/2 teaspoon salt

=== Ranch Style Beans ===
:beans:

Derived from
[[https://www.homesicktexan.com/ranch-style-beans-recipe/|Homesick Texan Ranch Style Beans Recipe]].
Adapted for a Instant Pot, using
[[https://amindfullmom.com/instant-pot-beans/|Instant Pot Dried Beans]].

- 16 oz dried beans
- 2 Bay leaves
- 6 ancho chiles, stems and seeds removed (1/4 c chili powder)
- 6 cloves garlic, minced (1-1/2 tsp granulated)
- 4 cloves black garlic (optional)
- 1 onion, diced (2 tsp dried shallots)
- 1 15-ounce can diced tomatoes and their juices (1 (6 ounce) can tomato
  paste)
- 1 teaspoon packed brown sugar
- 1 teaspoon apple cider vinegar
- 1 teaspoon paprika
- 1 teaspoon ground cumin
- 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
- 1 teaspoon cinnamon
- 1/2 teaspoon oregano
- 2 teaspoons salt
- 1 teaspoon black pepper
- 1 teaspoon black & red pepper (1/2 tsp cayenne pepper)
- 6 cups beef broth
- Cayenne pepper, optional, for heat, to taste
- Optional, for serving: hot sauce, grated cheese, sliced jalapeno, sour cream,
  sliced green onion, chopped fresh parsley or cilantro

1. In a cast-iron skillet heated up to medium high, cook the anchos on each
   side for a couple of minutes (or until they start to bubble and pop), turn
   off the heat and fill the skillet with warm water. Let them sit until soft
   and re-hydrated, about half an hour.
2. If using dried aromatics, skip.
  1. Heat up a teaspoon of cooking oil in a saute pan, over medium heat.
  2. Cook the onions for 5 minutes.
  3. Add the garlic and cook for another minute.
3. Throw the onions and garlic in a blender.
  1. Add the black garlic, tomatoes, brown sugar, apple cider vinegar, paprika,
     cumin, coriander, cinnamon, oregano, water, hydrated ancho chiles, and salt.
  2. Adjust liquid if not using can tomatoes.
  3. Puree until smooth.
  4. Set aside.
4. Add the beans, bay leaves (granulated garlic and dried shallots) and beef
   broth to the Instant Pot.
5. Seal and cook on High Pressure. Texture should be slightly under cooked.
  - Black Beans—30 Minutes
  - Chickpeas—40 Minutes
  - Kidney Beans—35 Minutes
  - Pinto Beans—25 Minutes
  - Navy Beans—30 Minutes
  - Great Northern Beans—35 Minutes
6. Slow release pressure for 20 minutes before doing a quick release.
7. Stir in the reserved chile puree.
8. Set Instant Pot to Slow Cook with vent valve open.
  1. Adjust power level to More (High).
  2. Set time to 1 hour.
  3. Continue to cook the beans uncovered until tender and the sauce has
     reduced, stirring occasionally.
9. Taste and adjust seasonings. Serve warm.


== Generated Links ==
- [[Coffee]]
- [[Git]]
- [[Health_Fitness]]
- [[Linux]]
- [[Oh-my-zsh]]
- [[PowerShell]]
- [[Python]]
- [[Sisal_Rope]]
- [[Windows 10 Configuration]]
- [[diary/diary]]
- [[main]]
