= Soup and Stew =
:soup:stew:

== Contents ==
- [[#Soup and Stew]]
  - [[#Brunswick Stew]]
  - [[#Root Vegetable Stew]]

== Brunswick Stew ==
:brunswick:stew:NC:

Adapted from:

- [[https://www.melissassouthernstylekitchen.com/brunswick-stew-recipe/|Melissa's Southern Style Kitchen]]
- [[https://grandmarecipes.com/authentic-brunswick-stew-recipe/#google_vignette|Grandma Recipes]]
- [[https://insanelygoodrecipes.com/brunswick-stew/|InsanelyGood]]
- [[https://tasteofsouthern.com/brunswick-stew/|Taste of Southern]]
- [[https://wellfedbaker.com/classic-brunswick-stew/|Well Fed Baker]]
- [[https://www.allrecipes.com/meet-brunswick-stew-11820246|allrecipes]]
- [[https://www.lanascooking.com/brunswick-stew/|Lana's Cooking]]
- [[https://www.smalltownwoman.com/brunswick-stew/|Small Town Woman]]
- [[https://www.southernliving.com/brunswick-stew-8767274|Southern Living]]
- [[https://www.thekitchn.com/best-brunswick-stew-recipe-23690550|the kitchn]]

*Ingredients*:

- 4 Tb butter
- 1 c yellow onion, diced
- 1 tsp fennel seed
- 4 cloves garlic, minced
- 3 c chicken broth
- 2 c baby lima beans
- 2 c corn
- 28 oz crushed tomatoes
- 14 oz diced tomatoes
- 2 c cubed potatoes
- 1-2 c BBQ sauce, mix of mustard and vinegar based
- 3 Tb Worcestershire sauce
- 1 tsp seasoned salt
- 1 tsp mignonette pepper
- 2–3 sprigs thyme
- 2 bay leaves
- ½ tsp cayenne pepper
- ½ allspice
- 1 tsp smoked paprika
- ½ lb pulled pork
- ½ lb smoked brisket
- 1 lb shredded chicken
- ¼ c tomato paste for thickening

*Directions*:

1. Melt butter over medium heat.
2. Sauté onion until soft, ~7 minutes.
3. Sauté garlic and fennel seeds for 1 minute, stirring constantly.
4. Deglaze pan with broth and transfer to 6 qt slow cooker.
5. Add broth, meat, vegetables and seasonings. Stir well.
6. Adjust thickness with stock or tomato paste, as needed.
7. Add brown sugar (1–2 Tb) or vinegar (1–2 tsp), as needed, to balance BBQ
   sauce.
8. Cook on low for 6 hours or on high for 3-4 hours.

== Root Vegetable Stew ==
:vegetable:stew:

Adapted from:

- [[https://www.asaucykitchen.com/roasted-root-vegetable-stew/|A Saucy Kitchen Roasted Root Vegetable Stew]]
- [[https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/ree-drummond/beef-stew-with-root-vegetables-recipe-1983394|Beef Stew with Root Vegetables]]
- [[https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchen/roasted-root-vegetable-irish-lamb-stew-recipe-2008979|Roasted Root Vegetable Irish Lamb Stew]]

Yield: 9 qts based on 9 lb root vegetables and 4 lb meat.

Hardware: 10 qt stock pot and large frying pan.

*Roasted Vegetables*:

- 9 lb root vegetables, fine diced
  - A combination of potatoes, carrots, parsnips, beets, turnips, rutabagas,
    etc.
  - Reserve the peelings for stock.
  - 5 lb Yukon gold potatoes
  - 1 lb parsnips
  - 1 lb rutabagas
  - 1 lb yellow beets
  - 1 lb carrots
- 8 Tb olive oil
- 2 tsp salt (substitute 4 Tb [[https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/fox-point-seasoning/c-24/p-393/pd-s|Fox Point Seasoning]])
- As needed, Mural of Flavor, Sunny Spain, etc
- 2 Tb [[/cooking#Mignonette Pepper|Mignonette Pepper]]
- 1 tsp cayenne
- 4 garlic bulbs, sliced in half

*Stew*:

- 3 Tb olive oil, each, for stock pot and frying pan
- 1 Tb butter, each, or rendered meat trimmings
- 4 pounds beef stew meat
- 4 shallots, diced
- 2 can or bottle beer
- 4 cups beef broth, more as needed
- 8 Tb Worcestershire sauce
- 6 Tb tomato paste (2×6 oz, 170 g)
- 4 15 oz/400 g cans fire-roasted, crushed or chopped tomatoes
- 4 tsp dried oregano
- 4 tsp red chili flakes
- 1 tsp sugar
- Cinnamon, several dashes to balance flavor
- 1 tsp sweet paprika
- 1 tsp smoked paprika
- 1 Tb salt
- Freshly ground black pepper
- 2 Tb all-purpose flour, optional
- Minced fresh cilantro, for garnish

*Directions*:

*Roasted Vegetables*:

1. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. Cover baking sheet with parchment paper.
3. Drizzle olive oil on cut side of garlic and sprinkle with salt.
4. Place cut side down on the baking sheet.
5. Add vegetables to a large bowl.
6. Drizzle olive oil and sprinkle the seasonings over the top.
7. Mix everything together until the veggies are well coated.
8. Spread vegetables on top of baking sheets.
9. Place in the middle of the oven and roast for 30-35 minutes
   (20 minutes, convect-roast)
   until the edges are crispy and vegetables are fork tender.
10. Set aside to cool.
11. Squeeze garlic from bulb onto vegetables.

*Stew*:

1. Heat the oil and butter in a pan, over medium heat
2. Brown the beef in batches to avoid crowding.
3. Remove the beef from the pan.
4. If meat trimmings are available,
  1. Render the trimmings with oil, in a 10 qt stock pot, over medium heat
  2. Discard the trimmings.
  3. Otherwise, heat the oil and butter, over medium heat
5. Sauté onions until softened, about 5-7 minutes.
6. Add tomato paste, paprika, and red chili flakes to the onion mixture and cook another minute.
7. Add oregano, canned tomatoes, parmesan, beer, beef broth, and Worcestershire sauce.
8. Add sugar, salt and pepper to taste.
9. Bring the mixture to a simmer and let cook while the vegetables are roasting or for at least 15 minutes.
10. Add the roasted vegetables and garlic.
11. Return the beef to the pan.
12. Cover and simmer on a low heat until the meat is very tender, 1-½ to 2 hours.
13. If the liquid level gets too low, add more broth as needed.
14. Adjust seasoning as needed.
15. If the stew is too thin, remove a cup of cooking liquid from the
    pan and stir in the flour. Add the flour mixture back into the pan and
    stir. Simmer for 10 minutes until the stew is thick.
16. The meat should be very tender; if it's tough, let it continue to cook.
17. To finish, add the cilantro and stir through the stew.
